Semester-wise Pattern
Participants need to take at least 12 courses towards coursework and complete one Dissertation. The coursework requirement for the programme would consist of a set of core courses and electives. Core courses are compulsory for all participants, while electives can be chosen based on individual learning preferences.

First Semester

Data Mining
Mathematical Foundations for Data Science
Data Structures and Algorithms Design
Computer Organization and Systems Software
Second Semester

Introduction to Statistical Methods
Introduction to Data Science
Machine Learning
Elective 1
Third Semester

Elective 2
Elective 3
Elective 4
Elective 5
Fourth Semester

Dissertation
Electives

Deep Learning
Natural Language Processing
Artificial-Intelligence
Real time-Analytics
Data Visualisation
Graphs - Algorithms & Mining
Optimization Methods for Analytics
Big Data Systems
Advanced Topics in Data Processing
Information Retrieval
Probabilistic Graphical Models
Data Warehousing
Systems for Data Analytics
Ethics for Data Science
Course Wise Syllabus

1. Introduction to Data Science

Learn about the need for data science, with emphasis on data; Visualization and ethical aspects involved in data science and engineering processes; Various applications of data science
2. Mathematical Foundations for Data Science

Learn about concepts in linear algebra and use it as a platform to model physical problems; Analytical and numerical solutions of linear equations; Mathematical structures, concepts, and notations used in discrete mathematics
3. Introduction to Statistical Methods

Learn about basic and some advanced concepts of probability and statistics; Concepts of statistics in solving problems arising in data science
4. Data Structures and Algorithms Design

Learn about applications of basic and advanced data structures & algorithms; How to determine the space and time complexities of various algorithms; Identifying and choosing the relevant data structures and algorithms for a given problem and justifying the time and space complexities involved
5. Computer Organization & Software Systems

Learn about computer organization, architecture aspects, and operating system concepts; Advanced systems and techniques used for data processing
6. Systems for Data Analytics

Learn about fundamentals of data engineering; Basics of systems and techniques for data processing - comprising of a relevant database, cloud computing, and distributed computing concepts
7. Data Mining

Learn about data pre-processing & cleaning; Association rule mining, classification, clustering techniques
8. Machine Learning

Learn about basic concepts and techniques of Machine Learning; Using recent machine learning software for solving practical problems; How to do independent study and research in the field of Machine Learning
9. Data Visualization

Learn about design principles, human perception and effective storytelling with data; Modern visualization tools and techniques
10. Ethics for Data Science

Learn about the need for data ethics; Challenges of data privacy; Data policies for maintaining the privacy of data; Data Privacy
11. Graphs - Algorithms and Mining

Learn about concepts of graph theory to understand; How Graph theory concepts are used in different contexts, ranging from puzzles and games to social sciences/ engineering/ computer science; Model problems in real-world using graphs; Applying mining algorithms to get information from graph structures
12. Optimization Methods for Analytics

Learn about applying linear programming techniques to complex business problems across various functional areas including finance, economics, operations, marketing, and decision making; Implementing optimization techniques to business and industrial problems
13. Big Data Systems

Learn about concepts related to big data and its processing; Applying the concepts of storage, retrieval, interfaces, and processing frameworks to a given problem and design solutions for the same by choosing the relevant ones
14. Advanced Topics in Data Processing

Learn about advanced strategies for data processing; The relationship between the scale of data and the systems used to process it; The importance of scalability of algorithms as the size of datasets increase
15. Information Retrieval

Learn about structure and organization of various components of an IR system; Information representation models, term scoring mechanisms, etc. in the complete search system; Architecture of search engines, crawlers, and the web search; Cross-lingual retrieval and multimedia information retrieval
16. Deep Learning

Learn about deep learning techniques, constructing deep network structures specific to applications and tuning for parameters
17. Natural Language Processing

Learn about natural language processing techniques such as Parts-of-Speech tagging, syntactic and semantic modelling of languages
18. Artificial Intelligence

Learn about classic AI Techniques
19. Real-time analytics

Learn about Processing frameworks for real-time analytics, and Analytics techniques for real-time streaming data
20. Probabilistic Graphical Models

Learn about representation, learning and reasoning techniques for graphical models
21. Data Warehousing

Learn about concepts needed to design, develop, and maintain a data warehouse; End-user access tools like OLAP and reporting
For fee details and programme information, please click here to download the Programme Brochure

 